### Plotting Term Frequencies with Python and R
This repository contains two scripts for visualizing the distribution of one or more terms over the course of a single text--one written in Python and the other in R: 

#### Python
The Python script in this repostory uses the Plotly API to visualize the distribution of one or more keywords of interest over the course of a single text. To use this script, you'll need to register for a [free Plotly API key](https://plot.ly/api/). Once you have a username and API key, use those values to set the following line in the script:  

`py.sign_in(PLOTLY_USERNAME, PLOTLY_API_KEY)`

You will also need to install the dependencies. To do so, you can open a terminal within the Python direcotry and run the following command:

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

You can then run the script from this directory by running the following command in a terminal:

`python single_text_term_distribution.py`

The resulting plot will look like this:

![plotly visualization of term frequency]
(./Python/plot/time_series.png)

Once you run the command above, a browser will open with a copy of your plot. This plot has the virtue of being interactive and embeddable in html. 

#### R
The R script uses the ggplot2 library to visualize the distribution of one or more keywords of interest over the course of a single text. This plot allows you to assign a different color to each word grouping, where a word grouping may contain one or more words. By running this script, you can see how widely used one or more keywords are within a text of interest. The plot generated by the plot looks like this:  

![ggplot of term frequency]
(./R/plot/multiple_greek_words_plot.png)

To run the R script, open RStudio, install ggplot2 if necessary, set the working directory to this directory, and run each command in the file. To run a command, you can hold the Control (Windows) or Command (OSX) button while pressing Return. 


